# text-to-sql

## ChatGPT assisted natural language to SQL converter
This program is meant to convert natural language to SQL queries so that users can query databases without having to learn SQL. It uses the OpenAI API to generate SQL queries from natural language. The program is currently in its testing phase, so any feedback is appreciated.

## How it works:
The program first prompts the user for a natural language query. It then uses the OpenAI API to generate a SQL query from the natural language query using text-davinci-edit-001. This is cost effective and efficient. The program then checks the natural language query against the generated SQL using gpt-3.5-turbo as it is the best current model available and it seems to catch most incorrect SQL requests. This will get better once I have fine-tuned a model using natural language prompts and their correct SQL. 

## Application architecture:

1. `main.py`: The entry point of the application. It handles user input and coordinates the conversion process.
2. `sql_converter.py`: Contains the `SQLConverter` class responsible for converting plain text to SQL using the GPT-3 model.
3. `openai_client.py`: Contains the `OpenAIClient` class responsible for interacting with the OpenAI API to make requests for the davinci-text-edit-001 and GPT-3.5-turbo models.

## How to run:
1. Install dependencies using `pip install -r requirements.txt`
2. Acquire an OpenAI API key through their website
3. Set the OpenAI API key as an environment variable
4. Run `python main.py`
5. Launch the application in your browser at `http://127.0.0.1:7860/`
6. Enter a natural language query and click submit
7. The application will return the SQL query generated from the natural language query
   



## TODO:

Fine Tune ChatGPT using accurate natural language to text conversions to perfect the SQL queries generated by the application.

Connect to SQL database with read only permission to test the SQL queries generated by the application.


